Sure, here are some common vi editor shortcuts in Linux:

Basic Movement:
h: Move left one character
j: Move down one line
k: Move up one line
l: Move right one character
0: Move to the beginning of the line
$: Move to the end of the line
w: Move to the beginning of the next word
b: Move to the beginning of the previous word
G: Move to the end of the file
gg: Move to the beginning of the file
Insert Mode:
i: Insert text before the cursor
a: Insert text after the cursor
o: Insert a new line below the current line and start inserting text
O: Insert a new line above the current line and start inserting text
Esc: Exit insert mode
Editing:
x: Delete the character under the cursor
dd: Delete the current line
yy: Copy the current line
p: Paste the previously copied or deleted text after the cursor
u: Undo the last change
Ctrl + r: Redo the last change
Search and Replace:
/search_text: Search for a string in the file (use n to find the next occurrence)
:%s/old_text/new_text/g: Replace all occurrences of a string in the file
Saving and Exiting:
:w: Save the file
:q: Quit vi
:wq: Save the file and quit vi
These are just some of the basic vi editor shortcuts. There are many more advanced features and shortcuts that you can learn as you become more familiar with vi.




Harsh reddy
i want to remove some ips in my file all at once throuh vi
Sure! Here's how you can remove multiple IPs from a file at once in vi:

Open the file in vi by typing vi filename in the terminal.

Use the / command to search for the first IP address you want to remove. For example, to search for the IP address 192.168.1.100, type /192.168.1.100 and press Enter.

Once the IP address is highlighted, press dd to delete the line containing the IP address.

Use the n command to move to the next occurrence of the IP address you want to remove. For example, type n and press Enter to move to the next occurrence of 192.168.1.100.

Repeat steps 3 and 4 until all occurrences of the IP address have been deleted.

Once you've removed all the IPs you want to delete, save the file by typing :w and pressing Enter.

Exit vi by typing :q and pressing Enter.

Alternatively, if you know the line numbers that contain the IPs you want to remove, you can delete them all at once using the :delete command. For example, to delete lines 5, 10, and 15, type :5,15delete and press Enter. This will delete lines 5 through 15, inclusive. Make sure to save the file after making the changes, as described in step 6 above.